Question :  Write a blog on the difference between document and window objects.

Solution : 

In web development, particularly when dealing with JavaScript, you often come across the terms document and window. These two objects are fundamental
to how your code interacts with a webpage, but while they are related, they serve different purposes. In this blog, we will explore the key differences
between the document and window objects, how they interact with each other, and when you would use one over the other.

What is Window Object ?

The window object is the global object representing the browser window or tab in which your webpage is displayed. Every time you open a new browser 
window or tab, a new window object is created. This object is the top-level container for everything that happens in a browser.



The window object provides access to various browser functionalities, such as:

* Global variables and functions: Any global variables or functions declared in your JavaScript code are properties of the window object.

* Methods and properties to control the browser: Functions like alert(), setTimeout(), setInterval(), and properties like window.innerWidth or window.location belong 
  to the window object.

* Handling browser events: Events like load, resize, and scroll are often attached to the window object.



Common Properties and Methods of the window Object:

* window.innerHeight & window.innerWidth: Get the height and width of the browser's viewport.

* window.alert(): Display an alert dialog.

* window.location: Get or set the current URL.

* window.open(): Open a new browser window or tab.

* window.setTimeout(): Execute a function after a specified delay.


//Example usage of the window object:

console.log(window.innerWidth);  // Outputs the width of the browser window
window.alert('Hello! This is a window alert.');




2. What is document object ?

The document object, on the other hand, represents the HTML content (the Document Object Model, or DOM) that is loaded in the browser window. 
It is a child of the window object. The document object allows you to interact with and manipulate the HTML and CSS of the webpage.



With the document object, you can:

* Access and manipulate the HTML structure: You can select, modify, and create new elements in the DOM.

* Handle events on HTML elements: You can attach event listeners like click, submit, and change to DOM elements using the document.

* Change CSS styles dynamically: You can update the style properties of elements on the fly.



Common Properties and Methods of the document Object:

* document.getElementById(): Select an element by its ID.

* document.querySelector(): Select the first element that matches a CSS selector.

* document.createElement(): Create a new HTML element.

* document.body: Represents the <body> element of the HTML document.


// Example usage of document object:

let header = document.getElementById('header'); // Select an element by its ID
header.innerHTML = 'Welcome to My Website';     // Modify the content of the element



3. Key difference between window and document :

Aspect	                                window Object	                                                       document Object

Definition-->               Represents the browser window or tab.	                                  Represents the HTML document loaded in the window.

Scope--->                  Global scope, accessible from anywhere.	                                   A part of the window object, deals with the DOM.

Purpose-->                    Controls browser-related tasks.	                                          Manages and manipulates the webpage content (DOM).


Common 
Methods/Properties-->	         window.alert(), window.open(), window.location	                          document.getElementById(), document.body, 
                                                                                                     document.createElement()

Event Handling-->	             Handles events like load, resize, scroll.	                               Handles events on HTML elements like click, submit, change.

Relationship-->	         The window object contains the document object.	                           The document object is a child of the window object.



4. How window and document Work Together
The window and document objects are closely related, with window being the global object that contains everything in the browser environment, 
including the document. For example, if you type window.document in the browser's console, you'll see the entire HTML document.


// Accessing the document object through window
console.log(window.document);  // Outputs the entire HTML DOM

While the window object provides general browser functionality, the document object focuses on manipulating the webpage content. 
Together, they allow developers to create dynamic and interactive websites.





5. When to Use window vs. document
Use window when you need to control browser-level operations like opening new tabs, manipulating the URL, or handling viewport resizing.
Use document when you need to manipulate or access the HTML structure of the webpage, like changing text, styles, or responding to user inputs.